Everyone's favorite topic the résumé many people actually enjoy writing their resume but unfortunately
it is a required part of a job search.
Well actually in a later video are you that this is not the case.
But for now let's leave it at that in order to maximize your chances of getting an interview.
You will most likely need a resume a brief document that someone will glance over it about ten seconds
and decide if you are worth talking do for a potential interview or phone interview.
How can we increase the odds here.
Now resumes are being to everyone's existence.
Nobody likes writing them and no employer offers a job just because of somebodies resume.
So you need to treat it accordingly.
Resumes are simply a way to get interviews.
And again you'll see soon that it's not the only way.
Spend very little money of time on your resume no longer than a day.
Look at the types of jobs that you want to have and have the words and characteristics described in
those job postings on your resume.
Finally make it personal for each position you applied do so that employers names is on the resume.
It will take you 10 seconds but by doing just those things it already puts you above most people that
just send mass amount of resumes that look the same.
Now before we get into the details of how to make a resume look good.
I want to show you a really nice tool.
This is the resume maker dot.
Online a free tool that just creates a resume for you or gives you a nice design and template that you
can just fill out yourself there are others like it online.
So you shouldn't really format your own resume.
I mean you're a programmer you are a developer.
You should spend your time coding and use the skills that other people have in design to improve your
resume.
So unless you're a designer you don't really need to focus on making your resume visually appealing
and you can just use a template like this one.
Most of your time like I said is better spent on other things.
And again remember what I said in most cases resumes get viewed for only 10 seconds by a recruiter and
they'll decide quickly if they should contact you for an in-person interview or a phone interview.
Most people spend too much time on the resumes tweaking small things changing fonts and well it's just
a waste of time.
Once you have a good resume that returns a good result then you're all set.
Ancient distress about it.
And keep in mind that some companies that get a lot of resumes don't even have humans actually looking
at their resume.
And initially they have some sort of an algorithm search that looks for keywords on your resume based
on their job description.
So let's go back to the slides now.
I'm going to give you a cheat sheet in the next video and do a bit of an exercise that goes into a little
bit more detail.
But for now let's follow these key points for having a nice resume Resumes should be one page only.
And unless you're an executive or something like that you don't need more than a page.
Second make sure that your resume contains relevant skills.
Each job has a specific requirement and they're looking for specific skills.
These form great keywords to use in your resume.
You can highlight the relevant skills in your professional summary that enables the employer to quickly
get a grasp of the most impressive and important things in your profile.
So again try to use the keywords that they use in the job description in your resume.
Thirdly you want to make it look personal like you didn't just mass email a bunch of companies and one
of the biggest mistakes you can make is to use the same resume for each job application.
That doesn't mean making your resume handcrafted each time spending hours for each company because most
of the time your resume will look the same.
It's very easy to customize your resume though.
Maybe changing a headline or summary section at the top where you can convey in a sentence how you would
fit well with the company or even just mention the particular company you're applying for.
And then finally you want to have some sort of an online link you want to highlight perhaps or get Hobb
your blog posts portfolio Web sites.
As a developer you should have something that is present online for you to showcase to an employer.
As a matter of fact that is more impressive than a resume.
And this is something we'll talk about later in the section.
There should be clearly highlighted on your resume.
All right.
These are just ballpoints and it's kind of hard to explain this without actually showing you a demo.
So it's time for a little exercise.
I have a little resume cheat sheet for you.
And in the next video I'm going to show you an example of a bad resume.
Then use the checklist to see how we can improve it.
I'll see in that one.